I think that the most impressive thing
that hit me initially was dr. Moise hand
and eye coordination that special talent
we can't we can't give to somebody that
has to be innate the way we operate the
procedures that we do are done so
carefully we spend that little extra
time to make sure that the tissue is
properly handled that the planes that we
open we have the ability to close again
and that tissue just comes back together
naturally coming up next one of the most
profound discoveries of the 20th century
how will the miracles of modern medicine
lead us into the next millennium join us
when we go behind the scenes inside the
o.r before I knew it I was just waking
up and it was done I went to the gym
about five days later dr. Moy made me
feel that we were going to do this
together hi I'm dr. Richard morning are
you or someone near to you suffering
from foot pain caused by bunions if so
you owe it to them and you owe it to
yourself to consider an examination in
the past bunion surgery was often more
painful than the bunions themselves but
not anymore using advanced surgical
techniques I've developed a procedure
that significantly reduces the pain and
recovery time traditionally associated
with bunion surgery in the next 30
minutes I'll show you how in my business
we sell tile and stone and granite to
contractors builders and designers and
my job requires me to be on my feet at
least 10 hours a day walking on hard
surfaces carrying samples going out to
job sites under new construction and my
concerns about having bunion surgery was
the downtime that it would take for me
to recover from it it amazes me that I
can wear heels now much more comfortably
than I ever could before walking on hard
surfaces for ten hours a day I
experience no pain at all
like I used to in the past before bunion
surgery well mainly it was the time that
I was going to take recover I felt that
I couldn't afford to miss work for once
the doctor I consulted with friar told
me would be like six weeks to two months
and I certainly couldn't afford that I'm
also very active and I spend a lot of
time training and running and playing
basketball and I'm just an active guy
and I you know my feet are very
important you know in that aspect of my
life and I didn't think that I would be
able to continue to do that unless I had
had my feet corrected as a doctor rich
muy has been terrific is follow-up has
been very precise i recommend rich and
have to other people and from what i
understand their surgeries that it's a
very successful as well after years of
having a lot of pain in my feet and
being very afraid to actually go through
with having any kind of surgery I had
always heard a lot of really horrible
stories about the pain that you
experience and I've had a lot of fear
about that being not able to walk and
being out of commission for weeks at a
time and after talking to dr. Moy he's
assured me that with this type of foot
surgery in this type of surgery that he
does you can choose what you want you
can choose between being completely wide
awake with just a local or being put to
sleep however you want to do it what
you're comfortable with and since there
is no pain involved with this surgery
you wake up not feeling sick to your
stomach and not feeling really
disoriented and in a lot of pain which
is a really great relief that comfort
for me and another reason why I've
decided to go ahead and have surgery hi
Andrea how you doing today I'd after my
how are you good I know you're
interested in bunion surgery so what I'd
like to do today is show you your x-rays
and show you where your bunion deformity
lies right here we have the first
metatarsal and what you see here is an
enlargement of bone on the side of your
foot that's where your bunion is
actually causing you pain this view over
here of your right foot is at an angle
view called the medial oblique and that
shows you the dorsal medial prominence
or the prominence that is above
and to the side of your foot this is a
side view of your foot and right here is
where the problem lies and what we plan
to do is create an osteotomy through
your foot like this to allow this
segment of bone to slide over and you
can see this segment of bone is cut in
this direction and slid over and asked
ruse placed in it this will all be
smoothed off and polished off but that's
left there to show you exactly how the
bones cut and how the screw is placed
into the bone this is a person's foot
that just had surgery about six weeks
ago and right here again is where the
bunion lies and you can see the soft
tissue swelling that's occurring around
here okay what we do is we went in we
remove this small segment of bone here
we shifted this segment of bone over in
this direction like this and therefore
were allowed to realign the sesamoid
bones assess my bones are sitting right
here and right here right now and which
you can see in the post-operative view
is that the sesamoid bones are realigned
right here right where they should be
and that the bone is a nice alignment
and you can see how the angulation or
the distance now between this bone and
this bone is a lot less the toe is a
nice straight alignment with the first
metatarsal looking at this other x-ray
here on the medial oblique view where I
told you that the bump is not only
sticking out to the side but up you can
see how that's been completely reduced
and you see this bone here right here is
now online with about this point here so
the bone is no longer sticking past this
red line also in this particular view
over here we see how the metatarsal is
here and this actual bone has been
dropped down slightly right here and
lowered just ever so slightly to create
increased range of motion for this
patient in this direction I heard from
several people that bunion surgery is
extremely painful and they weren't able
to walk for months is that true when you
have a fractured bone in your body the
painter is a result of the two ends of
the bone moving we have created a quad
Correctional bunion procedure that
realigns the great toe joint in four
different directions and then we use a
screw that allows for tight
impression in this case there is no
movement and your body does not tell you
that your foot is fractured how long
will the surgery last and how long
before the numbness wears off well the
procedure will only last right around an
hour and then you'll go home relax keep
your foot up and the numbness will wear
off in about 8 to 12 hours well I need a
cast and crutches after the surgery well
after the surgery no you won't have to
use any crutches or a cast because the
bone is so tightly compressed together
that you can actually put pressure on it
without moving it at all I found that I
had no problem walking it didn't stop me
from going out and doing the things that
I normally do I've had foot pain for
years what it felt like was a burning
kind of dull ache